.TH CINE 1 "2026-07-20" "cine 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cine \- Village Cinemas showtimes and a torrent streaming hub
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cine
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Scrapes villagecinemas.gr for what's currently playing, enriches every movie
with its IMDB rating and plot plus Rotten Tomatoes critic (Tomatometer) and
audience (Popcornmeter) scores, and shows everything as a poster grid sorted
by IMDB rating. RT states render as ANSI icons in the detail view
(Certified Fresh, Fresh, Rotten, Verified Hot, upright or spilled popcorn).
Posters render inline via the Kitty graphics protocol (Ghostty,
kitty, WezTerm) with a half-block fallback for other terminals, converted
with
.BR sips (1).
Results are cached for 12 hours. The chosen cinema and sort order are
remembered between runs. Showtimes are colored cyan (on sale), yellow (few
seats left), or red with a cross (sold out). When output is piped, a plain
text list is printed instead of the TUI.
.PP
Press
.B Tab
to switch to the second tab,
.BR Stream ,
a streaming hub for everything not playing near you. Search any title, pick a
source (seeders, size, parsed quality), and it streams the chosen magnet into
.BR IINA (1)
through
.BR rqbit (1)
while it downloads \(em torrent-native, no streaming-site scrapers. TV and
anime open a season/episode browser with watched markers and resume; English
subtitles are attached automatically. The Village tab needs neither
.BR rqbit (1)
nor IINA.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cinema " " \fIid\fR
Jump straight to a cinema by ID (see \fB\-\-list\fR).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-date " " \fIDD/MM\fR
Filter piped (plain) output to a specific date.
.TP
.B \-\-list
List available cinema IDs and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-clear
Clear the cache for the selected cinema before fetching.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Ignore the cache and always fetch fresh data.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B stream \fItitle\fR
Skip the TUI and stream from the command line: pick a title, then a source,
each through
.BR fzf (1),
and play the result in
.BR IINA (1)
via
.BR rqbit (1).
A series steps through season then episode first (SxxEyy for TV, romaji plus
number for anime); a season-pack source adds one more
.BR fzf (1)
step to choose the file. Needs
.BR fzf (1),
.BR rqbit (1),
and IINA installed.
.TP
.B watch
List active siren ticket watches.
.TP
.B watch \fItitle\fR [\fB\-\-imax\fR] [\fB\-c\fR \fIid\fR]
Get notified when Village opens booking for \fItitle\fR, via the siren
GitHub Actions watcher (requires an authenticated
.BR gh (1)).
.TP
.B unwatch \fItitle\fR
Stop watching \fItitle\fR.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B arrow keys
Move around the poster grid.
.TP
.B enter
Open the movie's detail view (poster, plot, every day's showtimes).
.TP
.B s
Cycle the grid sort: IMDB, Tomatometer, Popcornmeter, runtime.
.TP
.B w
Watch/unwatch the selected movie for ticket alerts.
.TP
.B t
Open the trailer in the browser.
.TP
.B b
Open the booking page in the browser.
.TP
.B p
Toggle the ticket price table.
.TP
.B c
Switch cinema (saved as the new default).
.TP
.B r
Refresh, ignoring the cache.
.TP
.B q / esc
Quit / go back.
.TP
.B tab
Switch between the Village and Stream tabs.
.PP
In the
.B Stream
tab:
.B /
searches as you type, arrow keys move,
.B enter
opens details (or a season/episode browser for series),
.B p
plays the selection in IINA, and
.B n
plays the next episode.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/cine/config.json
Remembered default cinema.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/cine/
Cached showtimes (12 h TTL), posters, trending lists, and subtitles.
.TP
.I ~/.config/cine/history.json
Stream tab history: recently played titles and episode resume state.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sips (1),
.BR open (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR rqbit (1),
.BR iina (1)
